Why we are here?
To learn and understand the concepts of Data Structures and Algorithms using C++.
To upskill ourselves in the field of programming.
To prepare for technical interviews and improve problem-solving skills.
To build a strong foundation in computer science principles.
To explore various data structures and algorithms and their applications.
To enhance coding efficiency and performance in software development.
To collaborate and share knowledge with peers in the programming community.
To gain practical experience through hands-on coding exercises and projects.
To stay updated with the latest trends and advancements in technology.
To develop critical thinking and analytical skills through algorithmic challenges.

Why do we need skills?
Skills are essential for personal and professional growth in the field of programming and software development. They enable individuals to:
1. Solve complex problems efficiently.
2. Write clean, maintainable, and efficient code.
3. Adapt to new technologies and programming languages.
4. Collaborate effectively with team members and stakeholders.
5. Build robust and scalable software solutions.
6. Prepare for technical interviews and career advancement.
7. Contribute to open-source projects and the programming community.
8. Stay competitive in the ever-evolving tech industry.
9. Enhance creativity and innovation in software design and development.
10. Foster a mindset of continuous learning and improvement in programming skills.
11. Develop a strong understanding of algorithms and data structures.
12. Gain confidence in tackling real-world programming challenges.
13. Improve debugging and problem-solving techniques.
14. Cultivate a passion for coding and software development.


Requirements for DSA
1. Premitive and non-premitive data types.


namespaces is defined as a declarative region that provides a scope to the identifiers (variables, functions, classes, etc.) inside it. It helps in avoiding name conflicts and organizing code logically.
which means that the same name can be used for different entities in different namespaces without causing ambiguity.

data type is defined as a classification that specifies which type of value a variable can hold. It determines the size, range, and operations that can be performed on the data.

and data structuresare specialized formats for organizing, processing, and storing data efficiently. They provide a way to manage large amounts of data and perform operations on it effectively.
data types
there are total of 4 types of data types in c++.
1. Primitive Data Types: These are the basic data types provided by C++. They include:
    - int: Represents integer values.
    - float: Represents floating-point numbers.
    - double: Represents double-precision floating-point numbers.
    - char: Represents single characters.
    - bool: Represents boolean values (true or false).
2. Derived Data Types: These are data types that are derived from the primitive data types. They include:
    - Arrays: A collection of elements of the same data type.
    - Pointers: Variables that store memory addresses of other variables.
    - Functions: Blocks of code that perform specific tasks and can return values.
3. User-Defined Data Types: These are data types defined by the user using the primitive and derived data types. They include:
    - Structures: A collection of variables of different data types grouped together.
    - Unions: Similar to structures, but only one member can hold a value at a time.
    - Enumerations: A user-defined data type that consists of a set of named integer constants.
4. Abstract Data Types (ADTs): These are data types that are defined by their behavior rather than their implementation. They include:
    - Lists: A collection of elements that can be accessed sequentially.
    - Stacks: A collection of elements that follows the Last In First Out (LIFO) principle.
    - Queues: A collection of elements that follows the First In First Out (FIFO) principle.

5. Standard Data Types: These are data types provided by the C++ Standard Library, such as:
    - std::string: Represents a sequence of characters (string).
    - std::vector: Represents a dynamic array that can grow and shrink in size.
6. Special Data Types: These are data types that have specific purposes, such as:
    - std::pair: Represents a pair of values.
    - std::tuple: Represents a fixed-size collection of values of different types.
7. Function Types: These are types that represent functions, including:
    - Function pointers: Pointers that point to functions.
    - Function objects: Objects that can be called like functions.
    - Lambda expressions: Anonymous functions that can capture variables from their surrounding scope.



                                            Data Type
                   primitive                                                non-primitive

          numeric                                 non-numeric               derived         user defined

    absolute/exact         approximate                                     -array
                single precision double precision                          -pointer
                    float           double                                 -function   




wide char in cpp is a data type that is used to represent characters in a wider range than the standard char type. It is typically used to support internationalization and character sets that require more than 256 characters, such as Unicode.
Wide char is defined as wchar_t in C++. It can store a larger set of characters, including special characters, symbols, and characters from different languages. The size of wchar_t is usually 2 or 4 bytes, depending on the platform and compiler.  
example of wide char in C++:
```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <cwchar>

int main() {
    wchar_t wideChar = L'あ';  // Japanese character
    std::wcout << L"Wide char: " << wideChar << std::endl;
    return 0;
}